oh hey hi I'm Krista Chris and welcome
just so cool old science trying to be
read at home and going over today's
science file and today's science file
can you dissolve a liquid in a liquid
well that's a great question
try this
you will need some rubbing alcohol a
piece of paper and a lighter this is a
gas dissolved in a liquid and this
rubbing alcohol is a liquid dissolved in
liquid oh yeah by the way I should
probably tell you do not drink the
rubbing alcohol I'll tell you only to
prove it to you check this out oh yeah
one more thing this 20 oh holy oh by the
way are you don't stick to using regular
paper for this okay don't get piece of
paper in the rubbing alcohol solution
and make sure it's entirely coated then
set a flat surface so it doesn't burn
the counter oh yeah by the way if your
hunger don't do this now I'll get you a
babysitter to do it you know cuz they're
not paid to eat chips all right you're
gonna light your piece of paper on fire
like this
yes haha now that is so wicked cool the
bill caught on fire but it didn't burn
it up so why doesn't the dollar bill
well don't look at me there you go close
up look okay a solution is a mixture of
two or more substances where the
molecules are evenly dispersed
throughout each other rubbing alcohol is
a liquid dissolved in a liquid because
the alcohol molecules evenly fill in the
spaces between the water molecules
solutions are different from colloids
because colloid mixtures are just
unevenly trapped pockets and molecules
and other molecules when you light the
alcohol solution soak piece of paper the
alcohol ignites the water portion of the
solution doesn't ignite and absorbs most
of the heat energy which is why the
paper doesn't burn the alcohol burning
away leaving just the bill proves that
the alcohol was dissolved in the water
of course if the heat energy vaporizes
the water that it will burn up the paper
which is why you should use regular
paper and not money all three phases of
matter can be a solvent or something
that dissolves other matter and even be
dissolved by a solvent however the most
common solvent is liquid water which
dissolves gases liquids and solids very
well solids can also dissolve the three
phases of matter such as gases being
added to methyl mercury being dissolved
in gold and alloy metals such as bronze
which are solid dissolved in a solid
gases can only dissolve other gases such
as the Earth's atmosphere is dissolved
gases and nitrogen so now you know more
about our solutions you know setting up
$20 bill on fire and it doesn't burn is
why science is so cool